---
layout: post
tags:
    - web
    - javascript
    - rant
title: window.clusterFuck
---

I started a project called [Terra](https://github.com/rileyjshaw/terra) a few weeks ago. I added a conditional to <code class="language-javascript">init()</code> that would complain if I’d already defined the library:

```javascript
(function (exports) {
	function init() {
		if (!exports.terra) {
			// do initialization things
		} else {
			throw 'You’ve already defined terra. Pay attention…';
		}
	}

	// more stuff happens…

	init();
})(this);
```

I’ll admit that this is a really ugly pattern for handling namespaces, but [even common patterns are affected by this](#what-does-it-all-mean). Let me take you on a journey through **the biggest browser [wat](https://www.destroyallsoftware.com/talks/wat) I’ve ever seen.**

I ran the code and the console yelled at me.

<code class="error">“You’ve already defined terra. Pay attention…”</code>

Strange… but maybe I forgot a <code class="language-javascript">var</code> somewhere. I set some breakpoints in DevTools and stepped through the execution.

1. The main IIFE is called
2. Some local variables are defined
3. init() is called.. wait, did I miss something?
4. window.terra is already defined????!!?!!!?!?!?!?!
5. Error is thrown, I get confused.

The only scripts on the page were ones that I’d written, and I definitely hadn’t defined <code class="language-javascript">terra</code>. I switched to a new branch and deleted almost everything.

```markup
<!doctype html>
<html lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="UTF-8">
  <title>Terra</title>
</head>
<body>
  <div id="terra"></div>
  <script>
    ;(function ( exports ) {
      function init () {
        if ( !exports.terra ) {
          console.log( 'Everything is awesome.' );
        } else {
          console.log( 'The night is dark and full of terrors.');
        }
      }

      init();
    }) ( this );
  </script>
</body>
</html>
```

Do you see it? I didn’t yet, and was hella confused when the console returned:

<code class="console">The night is dark and full of terrors.</code>

So I made it simpler:

```markup
<!doctype html>
<html lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="UTF-8">
  <title>Terra</title>
</head>
<body>
  <div id="terra"></div>
  <script>
    console.log( !window.terra );
  </script>
</body>
</html>
```

…and got:

<code class="console">False</code>

Either someone had added a global property called <code class="language-javascript">terra</code> to the latest build of Chrome, or it was adding that <code class="language-markup">&lt;div id="terra"&gt;</code> to the global namespace. But… that would make no sense. Browsers wouldn’t add element IDs to <code class="language-markup">window</code>, would they?

## They would.

I tried Firefox. Defined. I tried Safari. Defined. I tried IE. Super-duper defined. The room was spinning; I had read the scriptures of Crockford and Resig and this was blasphemy. How many times had I inadvertently defined <code class="language-javascript">window.test</code>, <code class="language-javascript">window.baz</code>, <code class="language-javascript">window.container</code>…

## Digging deeper

Unsurprisingly, it seems that Internet Explorer can be thanked for this awesome “feature”. Other browsers felt compelled to follow suit, and soon enough the behaviour made it into [the official HTML spec](http://www.whatwg.org/specs/web-apps/current-work/#named-access-on-the-window-object).

> The Window interface supports named properties. The supported property names at any moment consist of the following, in tree order, ignoring later duplicates:
>
> -   the browsing context name of any child browsing context of the active document whose name is not the empty string,
> -   the value of the name content attribute for all a, applet, area, embed, form, frameset, img, and object elements in the active document that have a non-empty name content attribute, and
> -   the value of the id content attribute of any HTML element in the active document with a non-empty id content attribute.

So, there you have it. **Any elements with an <code class="language-markup">id</code> or <code class="language-markup">name</code> attribute will have a reference in the global namespace.**

## What does it all mean?

Firstly, this does **not** make it okay for you to start interacting with the DOM using these variables. Cross-browser implementations are shaky, and hopefully at some point this will fade out of the spec. On top of that, any newly defined globals will overwrite these references. Stick with <code class="language-javascript">document.getElementById()</code> and <code class="language-javascript">document.getElementsByName()</code>. Or <code class="language-javascript">$()</code>, if you prefer.

These element references likely won’t cause you any trouble, especially if you’re being a good neighbor in the global namespace. If you’re using browserify ([which you should be](https://scott.mn/2014/03/03/javascript_modules/)), RequireJS, or any strict module system, just pick specific global variable names and kept them to a minimum.

_Weird stuff can happen_ if there’s a collision; let’s take a look at the 5 most common namespace-checking patterns for object literals:

```javascript
/*
Option 1: var myApplication = myApplication || {};
Option 2  if(!MyApplication) MyApplication = {};
Option 3: var myApplication = myApplication = myApplication || {}
Option 4: myApplication || (myApplication = {});
Option 5: var myApplication = myApplication === undefined ? {} : myApplication;
*/
```

Options 1, 3, and 5 shadow <code class="language-javascript">myApplication</code> with the initial <code class="language-javascript">var</code> declaration, so you’ll end up with <code class="language-javascript">myApplication</code> equal to <code class="language-javascript">{}</code>. Option 2 and 4 though? Not so lucky. Since there’s no <code class="language-javascript">var</code> shadowing the variable, these patterns leave you with a DOM element sitting in place of your fresh new object. As soon as you try to iterate over the object’s properties or run one of its methods, you’re working with a different object than the one you expected.

Here a few more ways that these new variables can get you in trouble (assuming here that we’ve defined an element with <code class="language-markup">name="ticker"</code>):

### Checking for existence

As we saw earlier, conditional code such as

```javascript
if (!window.ticker) {
	window.ticker = 0;
}
window.ticker++;
```

Can cause all sorts of errors and heartbreak down the road. [Here’s a safer way to check](#2014-03-12)!

### Misspelling

All of a sudden,

```javascript
var picker = {};
picker.item1 = 'Corn Flakes';
ticker.item2 = 'Buttons';
picker.item3 = 'Hair';
```

Doesn’t throw a ReferenceError and the property we _meant_ to interact with isn’t touched.

### Blocking external libraries

Sadly, you don’t have much control over this one. Other developers who aren’t as enlightened as me and you may write their libraries in such a way that named element references can block their initialization. A good way to avoid this is to

1. avoid using <code class="language-markup">id</code>s with the same name as libraries you’re using (duh), and
2. post an issue to the library’s repository mentioning that their library isn’t safe for loose-cannon-element-namers.

## Conclusion

Though the globalization of element <code class="language-markup">id</code>s and <code class="language-markup">name</code>s really surprised me, the fact that it gets such little attention means that it’s probably not a huge deal. Regardless, **adding all of these variables to the global namespace has no real advantage, and allows developers to make mistakes that are really annoying to debug.** Apart from maintaining legacy code written by the few people who use this rule, I can’t see any reason to keep the behaviour in modern browsers.

For now just keep smiling, and let’s all hope that someday soon we’ll be rid of them.

## Addendums

### 2014-03-12

Redditor [minrice2099](http://www.reddit.com/r/webdev/comments/2023ex/windowclusterfuck_a_tale_of_global_variables/cfz7qb9) [<i class="fa fa-github"></i>](https://github.com/mtackes) came up with a clever way to check if a variable comes from a named element. Checking <code class="language-javascript">x in Object.keys( window )</code> will return <code class="language-javascript">True</code> if <code class="language-javascript">x</code> is defined explicitly (with <code class="language-javascript">var</code> or <code class="language-javascript">window.</code>) or is inherited through the prototype chain; otherwise, it will return <code class="language-javascript">False</code>. This is different than checking <code class="language-javascript">.hasOwnProperty</code> because it will respect properties found up the prototype chain.

From here, we can check existence using:

```javascript
if (window.x in Object.keys(window)) {
	// do as you must…
}
```

This works in all modern browsers, but use at your own risk if you’re looking to support past / future browsers.
